<h1>Factors Influence The Purchase Intention Towards Rooftop Solar</h1>
<h4> (A Comparative study of a developed and a developing country) </h4>

<br/>
<h2>Abstract</h2>
The primary objective of this study is to identify the key factors influencing purchase intention towards rooftop solar panels. The study was conducted as a comparison between Sri Lanka and the UK, which served as developing and developed countries. The conceptual foundation was built integrating, Theory of Planned Behaviour (TPB), Technology Acceptance Model (TAM), and Unified Theory of Acceptance and Use of Technology (UTAUT). As independent constructs, subjective norm, effort expectancy, facilitating conditions and perceived behavioural control were considered while performance expectancy and attitude were considered as mediators. Income and education were considered additionally. Data analysis was performed using SPSS and SPSS AMOS using 246 and 194 responses from Sri Lanka and UK collected through a questionnaire respectively. Confirmatory Factor Analysis was performed to test the measurement model and Structural Equation Modelling was used to analyse the relationship. Effects of the mediators were assessed by serial mediation analysis using bootstrap technique. Direct effect of Perceived Behavioural Control was significant for Sri Lankans and Facilitating Conditions affected on UK residents’ purchase intention significantly. For both countries Subjective Norm and Effort Expectancy were having significant indirect effect on purchase intention through performance expectancy and attitude. The findings of the research can serve as suggestions for solar suppliers to design effective marketing strategies and segmentation. With a greater understanding of consumers' intentions to purchase solar panels, government can go forward with creating the necessary regulations and incentives to encourage public to adopt solar energy. Moderator analysis could be incorporated into the conceptual model by upcoming scholars. Future research should also be interesting to conduct a cost-benefit analysis and levelized cost of energy.
